Add production deployment documentation using Cookieplone's sub/front… (#7626)
plone/volto: docs/source/deploying/production.md

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Production deployment of a Volto application using Cookieplone"
    "property=og:description": "Production deployment of a Volto application using Cookieplone"
    "property=og:title": "Production deployment"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, deployment, production, cookieplone"
---

# Production deployment

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This chapter describes how to deploy a Volto application to a production environment.

```

```{versionadded} Volto 18.0.0-alpha.43
```

```{deprecated} 18.0.0-alpha.43
The Volto app approach is deprecated. For production deployments, use [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) with the `sub/frontend_project` template instead.
```

## Overview

> For production deployments of Volto, the recommended approach is to use [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) with the `sub/frontend_project` template. This creates a production-ready project structure that uses Volto as a library rather than as a standalone app.

Reviewer: Merge with above and remove repetitions.

```suggestion
```

This approach provides:
- A clean, minimal boilerplate project structure
- Better separation of concerns
- Easier maintenance and upgrades

> - Production-ready deployment configuration

Reviewer: Moved above.

```suggestion
```

## Creating a production project

> 

Reviewer: Redundant sub-heading

```suggestion
```

### Using Cookieplone with the frontend_project template

To create a production-ready Volto project, use Cookieplone's `sub/frontend_project` template:

```shell
pipx run cookieplone sub/frontend_project
```

```{note}
The `sub/frontend_project` template creates a minimal boilerplate project structure for production deployments. This is different from the `frontend_addon` template, which is used for creating Volto add-ons. For full-stack Plone projects (with both frontend and backend), use the `project` template instead.
```

This command will:
1. Prompt you for project details (project name, description, etc.)
2. Generate a boilerplate project structure
3. Set up a `package.json` that depends on Volto
4. Include deployment scripts and configuration

> The generated project will have a minimal structure, with most functionality coming from Volto as a dependency. The project essentially becomes a thin wrapper around Volto, defining your specific configuration and customizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated project will have a minimal structure, with most functionality coming from Volto as a dependency.
The project essentially becomes a thin wrapper around Volto, defining your specific configuration and customizations.
```

### Project structure

> After generation, your project will have a structure similar to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After generation, your project will have a structure similar to the following file tree diagram.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```console
````

my-volto-project/
├── package.json          # Defines Volto as a dependency
├── src/
│   └── config.js         # Your Volto configuration
├── public/               # Static assets
└── build/                # Production build output (after build)
```

## Building for production

Once you have your project structure, build it for production:

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

For production builds with specific environment variables:

```bash
PORT=3000 RAZZLE_API_PATH=https://mywebsite.com/api pnpm build
```

The build process will:
- Compile your React application
- Bundle all dependencies

> - Create optimized production assets in the `build` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   compile your React application
-   bundle all dependencies
-   create optimized production assets in the `build` directory
```

> - Create optimized production assets in the `build` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build process will perform the following tasks.

-   Compile your React application.
-   Bundle all dependencies.
-   Create optimized production assets in the `build` directory.
```

## Deployment options

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are several options when deploying a Volto app to production.
Choose from the following sections for the one appropriate to your situation.

```

### Using a Node.js base image

> If you need to use your own Node.js base image (rather than the official `plone-frontend` images), you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use your own Node.js base image, instead of the official `plone-frontend` images, use following workflow.
```

1. **Build the project** in your CI/CD pipeline or locally
2. **Copy the built project** to your production image

> 3. **Start the production server** using the built files

Reviewer: Please don't add strong formatting where it's not helpful.

```suggestion
1.  Build the project in your CI/CD pipeline or locally.

    ```shell
    pnpm install
    PORT=3000 RAZZLE_API_PATH=https://mywebsite.com/api pnpm build
    ```

2.  Copy the built project from the {file}`./build` directory to your production image.
3.  Start the production server using the built files.

    ```shell
    NODE_ENV=production node build/server.js
    ```
    
```

Example workflow:

```bash
# Build the project
pnpm install
PORT=3000 RAZZLE_API_PATH=https://mywebsite.com/api pnpm build

# The build output is in the ./build directory
# Copy this to your production image and run:
NODE_ENV=production node build/server.js
```

> ### Using plone-frontend Docker images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `plone-frontend` Docker images
```

> The official `plone-frontend` Docker images use the `sub/frontend_project` template approach internally. You can reference these images as examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official `plone-frontend` Docker images use the `sub/frontend_project` template approach internally.
You can reference the following images as examples.
```

- [Dockerfile.builder](https://github.com/plone/plone-frontend/blob/main/pnpm/Dockerfile.builder) - Build stage

> - [Dockerfile.prod](https://github.com/plone/plone-frontend/blob/main/pnpm/Dockerfile.prod) - Production stage

Reviewer: These are 404s. There's no `main` branch.

```suggestion
- [Dockerfile.builder](https://github.com/plone/plone-frontend/blob/18.x/pnpm/Dockerfile.builder) - Build stage
- [Dockerfile.prod](https://github.com/plone/plone-frontend/blob/18.x/pnpm/Dockerfile.prod) - Production stage
```

These images demonstrate the multi-stage build process:
1. Install dependencies and build the project
2. Copy only the necessary files to a production image

> 3. Run the production server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These images demonstrate the multi-stage build process.
1.  Install dependencies and build the project.
2.  Copy only the necessary files to a production image.
3.  Run the production server.
```

### Starting the production server

After building, start your production server:

```bash
pnpm start:prod
```

Or directly with Node.js:

```bash
NODE_ENV=production node build/server.js
```

## Environment configuration

Configure your production environment using environment variables:

- `PORT`: The port on which the Node.js server will listen (default: 3000)
- `RAZZLE_API_PATH`: The API endpoint URL (e.g., `https://mywebsite.com/api`)

> - `NODE_ENV`: Should be set to `production` for production deployments

Reviewer: Use a definition list.

```suggestion
Configure your production environment using environment variables.

`PORT`
:   The port on which the Node.js server will listen. Default: `3000`.

`RAZZLE_API_PATH`
:   The API endpoint URL, for example, `https://mywebsite.com/api`.

`NODE_ENV`
:   This should be set to `production` for production deployments.
```

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Production deployment of a Volto application using Cookieplone"
    "property=og:description": "Production deployment of a Volto application using Cookieplone"
    "property=og:title": "Production deployment"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, deployment, production, cookieplone"
---

# Production deployment

```{versionadded} Volto 18.0.0-alpha.43
```

```{deprecated} 18.0.0-alpha.43
The Volto app approach for production deployments is deprecated.
```

For production deployments of Volto, the recommended approach is to use [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) with the `sub/frontend_project` template. This creates a production-ready project structure that uses Volto as a library rather than as a standalone app.

This approach provides:
- A clean, minimal boilerplate project structure
- Better separation of concerns
- Easier maintenance and upgrades
- Production-ready deployment configuration

## Creating a production project

### Using Cookieplone with the frontend_project template

To create a production-ready Volto project, use Cookieplone's `sub/frontend_project` template:

```shell

> pipx run cookieplone sub/frontend_project

Reviewer: Yes. Good catch!

See https://github.com/plone/cookieplone-templates/tree/main/templates/sub/frontend_project#generate-your-frontend-project-

    "property=og:title": "Production deployment"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, deployment, production, cookieplone"
---

# Production deployment

This chapter describes how to deploy a Volto application to a production environment.

```{versionadded} Volto 18.0.0-alpha.43
Cookieplone deployment option.
```

For production deployments where you need only the Volto frontend, use the [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) `sub/frontend_project` template.
It scaffolds a standalone Volto frontend project that you can deploy alongside your Plone backend.
By default, this template generates the frontend in a {file}`sub/frontend_project/` folder.

This approach provides:
- a clean, minimal boilerplate project structure
- better separation of concerns
- easier maintenance and upgrades
- production-ready deployment configuration

```{deprecated} 18.0.0-alpha.43
The Volto app approach for production deployments is deprecated.
```

## Generate a project with Cookieplone

To create a production-ready Volto frontend project, run Cookieplone's `sub/frontend_project` template.

```shell
uvx cookieplone sub/frontend_project
```

> 
> This command will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will perform the following steps.

```

> 1.  Prompt you for project details, including project name, description, and other information.
> 2.  Generate a boilerplate project structure with backend and a dedicated frontend folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Prompt you for project details, including the project name, Volto version, and author.
2.  Generate a boilerplate project structure with a frontend folder.
```

3.  Set up a {file}`package.json` file in {file}`sub/frontend_project/` that depends on Volto.

> 4.  Include deployment scripts and configuration to build and run the frontend.

Reviewer: It does neither of these steps. @ericof @sneridagh we need clarification of whether using `uvx cookieplone sub/frontend_project` is, in fact, the correct way to generate a frontend project for deployment.

Reviewer 2: The sub/frontend_project template is used internally to build the plone-frontend Docker image, which is the recommended way to deploy Volto in production. This template is not designed or tested for use on its own, and I think it would be a mistake to try to document that.

Reviewer: OK. Next question, what _is_ the correct way?

Reviewer 3: > The sub/frontend_project template is used internally to build the plone-frontend Docker image, which is the recommended way to deploy Volto in production

@davisagli See my comment at: https://github.com/plone/volto/pull/7626#issuecomment-3552793035

So we don't have a way to generate just the frontend.

- better separation of concerns
- easier maintenance and upgrades
- production-ready deployment configuration

```{deprecated} 18.0.0-alpha.43
The Volto app approach for production deployments is deprecated.
```

For production deployments of Volto, the recommended approach is to use [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) with the `sub/frontend_project` template. This creates a production-ready project structure that uses Volto as a library rather than as a standalone app.

## Cookieplone `frontend_project` template

To create a production-ready Volto project, use Cookieplone's `sub/frontend_project` template:

```shell
uvx cookieplone sub/frontend_project
```

```{note}
The `sub/frontend_project` template creates a minimal boilerplate project structure for production deployments.
This is different from the `frontend_addon` template, which is used for creating Volto add-ons.
For full-stack Plone projects (with both frontend and backend), use the `project` template instead.
```

This command will:
1.  Prompt you for project details, including project name, description, and other information.
2.  Generate a boilerplate project structure.

> 3.  Set up a {file}`package.json` that depends on Volto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Set up a {file}`package.json` file that depends on Volto.
```

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "Production deployment of a Volto application using Cookieplone"
    "property=og:description": "Production deployment of a Volto application using Cookieplone"
    "property=og:title": "Production deployment"
    "keywords": "Volto, Plone, frontend, React, deployment, production, cookieplone"
---

# Production deployment

This chapter describes how to deploy a Volto application to a production environment.

```{versionadded} Volto 18.0.0-alpha.43
Cookieplone deployment option.
```

> For production deployments, use the standard [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) `project` template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For production deployments, use the [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) `project` template.
```

It scaffolds the full Plone stack (backend + Volto frontend) that integrators customize and deploy.
Inside the generated project you will find a `frontend/` folder that contains the Volto application used in production.

This approach provides:
- a clean, minimal boilerplate project structure
- better separation of concerns
- easier maintenance and upgrades
- production-ready deployment configuration

```{deprecated} 18.0.0-alpha.43
The Volto app approach for production deployments is deprecated.
```

## Generate a project with Cookieplone

To create a production-ready Volto project, run Cookieplone's user-facing `project` template:

```shell
uvx cookieplone project
```

```{note}
The interactive prompts let you choose add-ons and other options. The resulting repository contains both the backend configuration and a `frontend/` folder that houses the Volto app you will build and deploy.

> ```

Reviewer: This is redundant to the following list and paragraph.

```suggestion
```
